{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf460
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Spring 2016 Course Syllabus\
Course Name: CS 3 Introduction to Computer Systems (Santa Monica College Campus) Prerequisites: None; Transfer: UC, CSU\
Sections: 4112; Days: Tu; Time: 1845 to 2150; Room: B203 Prerequisite(s) or departmental advisories: None\
Instructor: Ken Marchand\
Email: marchand_kenneth@smc.edu\
Office Hours: Tu 1745 to 1845, Room B203\
Text: Introduction to Computer Systems, 2nd Edition; by Harold L Rogler, Ph.D., ISBN: 978-1-4652-8354-2\
Required Materials and Supplies: 2 formatted DVD-RWs or memory keys, 3 or 4 Scantrons, format to be announced.\
Course Description: CS 3 is a beginning course intended for students who plan to take additional computer programming or computer science courses. Emphasis in the course is divided between a broad survey of the field of computer information systems and the acquisition of computer skills necessary for more advanced classes. Such skills would involve use of the operating system, file management techniques, use of an editor, and an introduction to programming.\
Course Content: Upon successful completion of this course, students will: \uc0\u61607  Be able to define fundamental computer concepts\
\uc0\u61607  Be aware of the social implications of technological development.\
\uc0\u61607  Be able to trace the execution of basic programs.\
\uc0\u61607  Be able to write rudimentary computer programs.\
\uc0\u61607  Have knowledge of the capabilities of current day computers and the possibilities of future computers.\
STUDENT LEARNING OUTCOMES\
1. In order to obtain the knowledge and academic skills necessary to access, evaluate, and interpret ideas, images, and information critically in order to communicate effectively, reach conclusions, and solve problems, students will be able to:\
Identify elements of software needs, gather data to identify customer requirements, identify input and output requirements, identify system processing requirements, clarify specifications, identify hardware, networking, and software system functional requirements, demonstrate knowledge of security, define business problem to be solved by the application, demonstrate knowledge of the use, structure, and contents of a requirements specification document, define system and software requirements.\
As assessed by: Homework, Group projects, Written Examinations.\
2. Using ALICE, Visual Basic, and C languages, students will write programs that demonstrate that they are able to able to design, code, test, and debug software applications.\
As assessed by: Assignments where computer programs are written and exams are taken that address software issues.\
 1\
SCHEDULE OF ACTIVITIES\
     Week\
  Date\
 Topic\
   Supporting Material\
   Notes\
     1\
  16-Feb\
 Introduction, History of Computing, Hardware \'96 CPU and Memory\
   Chapters 1 and 2\
        2\
     23-Feb\
  Numbers and Characters, Input Devices, Output Devices\
    Chapters 3, 4 and 5\
        3\
 01-Mar\
Secondary Storage, Communications and Networking\
  Chapters 6 and 7\
      4\
     08-Mar\
  The Internet\
    Chapter 11\
    Exam 1 - Chapters 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5\
    5\
 15-Mar\
Software-Systems Software and Applications\
  Chapters 8 and 9\
      6\
  22-Mar\
 Software - Applications\
   Chapters 9, 13, and 14\
        7\
     29-Mar\
  Databases and Information Systems\
    Chapter 15\
        8\
 05-Apr\
Programming\
  Lecture, Handouts\
 Exam 2 - Chapters 6, 7, 8, 11\
       12-Apr\
 Spring Break -- No class\
           9\
  19-Apr\
 Visual Basic Programming\
   Lecture, Handouts\
        10\
  26-Apr\
 Visual Basic Programming\
   Lecture, Handouts\
        11\
     03-May\
  Visual Basic Programming\
    Lecture, Handouts\
        12\
 10-May\
Visual Basic Programming\
  Lecture, Handouts\
 Exam 3 - Chapters 9, 13,14, 15\
     13\
     17-May\
  Visual Basic Programming\
    Lecture, Handouts\
        14\
    24-May\
 Visual Basic Programming\
   Lecture, Handouts\
      15\
 31-May\
Computer Security and Safety and Careers in Computing - Review for Final Exam\
  Chapter 10\
      16\
     07-Jun\
   Final Exam\
           GRADING POLICY\
   Final Score\
     Letter Grade\
   90% \'96 100%\
       A\
    80% \'96 89%\
  B\
   70% \'96 79%\
       C\
    60% \'96 69%\
    D\
   2\
METHOD OF EVALUATION\
   Attendance and Participation\
     05%\
   Midterm Exams (best 2 of 3)\
       40%\
    Programming Assignments\
  12%\
   Other Assignments\
       08%\
    Final Exam\
    35%\
   Projects: I do not require a project, but I strongly encourage students to complete a project that will consist of a ten minute in-class presentation using Power Point or other Visual Aid. The topic must be related to computer science and must be approved by me. Your chances of earning a higher grade in this class are greatly enhanced if you elect to complete a project.\
\'95 If you decide to complete the project, you must submit a written proposal to me by the fifth week of the semester. The proposal must contain the proposed topic, date of completion, and resources. The project must be completed before the final exam.\
\'95 If you satisfactorily complete the project, I will add up to five points to your final average.\
Missed Work: There will be no penalty for late work due to a documented religious holiday. Otherwise, late assignments will be accepted up to one week late with a 25% reduction in score.\
Extra Credit Policy: Sporadic opportunities for extra credit may be provided during the semester.\
Students with Disabilities: I encourage students requesting disability-related accommodations to contact Disabled Student Services as soon as possible. I will work with you and the Center for Students with Disabilities to provide appropriate and reasonable accommodations. An early notification of your request for test-taking and/or other accommodations is necessary to ensure that your disability related needs are addressed appropriately; testing accommodations cannot be applied retroactively. The DSPS office is located in the Admissions/Student Services Complex, Room 101, and the phone numbers are (310) 434-4265 and (310) 434- 4273 (TDD).\
Emergency Preparedness: The safety of students at SMC is a priority. Please note that emergency procedures are posted in this classroom and every classroom. Also, procedures for various emergencies are delineated on the SMC website: http://www.smc.edu/StudentServices/EmergencyPreparedness/Pages/Emergency-Preparedness.aspx\
Please take the time to familiarize yourself with these procedures today, when knowledge of what to do can be the most effective.\
Attendance, Drop, and Withdrawal Policy: Although I retain the right to drop you given the above circumstances, it is nevertheless your responsibility as a student to withdraw from class if you do not intend to complete it. Students must NOT expect faculty to initiate withdrawal procedures for them. If you wish to drop this class, you may do so through Corsair Connect. Students may process a drop for themselves through 75% of the class, which is through the 12th week in a regular semester. Data regarding the withdrawal parameters for each class are provided within each student\'92s individual Corsair Connect account.\
General information regarding drop dates, withdrawals, and other enrollment matters may be found at the Admissions section of the SMC website: http://www.smc.edu/EnrollmentDevelopment/Admissions/Pages/default.aspx\
Incompletes: A grade of \'93Incomplete\'94 may only be granted at the very end of the term, when 90% of the course work has been satisfactorily completed by the student, but an unforeseen event or illness prevents the student from completing the coursework. \'93Incomplete\'94 grade situations are extremely rare, and are entirely at the discretion of the instructor, within the parameters set above.\
   3\
CLASS POLICIES\
Academic Honesty: SMC has a clearly defined Honor Code, to which each student agrees during the enrollment process each semester. The Honor Code may be found at: http://www.smc.edu/StudentServices/HonorCouncil/Pages/Honor-Code.aspx\
If the instructor determines that a student has violated the SMC Honor Code and/or the Code of Academic Integrity, the student may be assigned no credit. Future occurrences could result in academic disciplinary action.\
Food and Drink: Please do not bring food or beverages into the classroom outside your personal effects. Cellphones, tablets, laptops and other devices: The exams may be open-book, but cellphones laptops\
or other devices are not permitted during exams.\
OTHER INFORMATION\
\uc0\u61607  Three midterms will be given. The lowest midterm score will be dropped.\
\uc0\u61607  Please feel free to e-mail me about any issue.\
\uc0\u61607  Unless specifically stated that classroom time is for assignments, assignments completed during classroom\
hours will not be accepted.\
\uc0\u61607  Please do not submit your homework assignments by way of email. If you cannot be in class on the day an\
assignment is due, you may submit the assignment by way of campus mail.\
\uc0\u61607  The final exam must be taken to pass the class.\
\uc0\u61607  Any changes will be posted on the Internet on e-companion.\
\uc0\u61607  The above schedule is approximate and subject to change. Please stay informed by attending class and\
checking e-companion regularly.\
\uc0\u61607  No makeup exams will be given. If you miss an exam, the missed exam will be your dropped exam.\
HOW TO SUCCEED\
\uc0\u61607  Come to class\
\uc0\u61607  Do the reading and lab assignments\
\uc0\u61607  Ask for help if you need it\
\uc0\u61607  I am available for consultation during the above office hours or by email\
\uc0\u61607  Tutors may be available in the computer labs\
 4\
 Courses CS3\
Computer Science X\
Database Computer Applications\
Programming Developer\
X X\
Web Programmer X\
Information Systems Management\
Net- working\
Mobile Apps Development iPhone\
Mobile Apps Development Android\
ADDENDUM A--CERTIFICATION AND DEGREE REQUIREMENTS\
CS 8\
CS9A\
CS9B\
CS15\
CS 17\
CS19\
CS 20A\
CS 20B\
CS 22\
CS 23\
CS 25\
CS32\
CS37\
CS40\
CS 41\
CS 42\
CS 43\
CS50\
CS 51\
CS52\
CS 53A\
CS 53B\
CS 53C CS55XXX CS 56\
X\
X X\
X X X X\
XXXX X\
X\
X\
X\
X X\
X X\
X\
X\
XX\
X XXXX\
X\
XXX XXX\
XX\
X\
X\
CS 60\
CS61\
CS65\
CS 66\
CS70\
CS 75\
CS 78\
CS 80\
CS81\
CS82\
CS83\
CS84XXX\
CS85 XXX\
CS86 X X\
X\
XXX XX XXX\
XX\
X\
X X X X X X X\
XX X X\
X X X\
XX\
5\
      Courses\
   Computer Science\
  Computer Programming\
   Database Applications Developer\
     Web Programmer\
  Information Systems Management\
        Net- working\
  Mobile Apps Development iPhone\
  Mobile Apps Development Android\
        CS 88A\
            X\
               Math 7\
     X\
                                    Math 8\
 X\
            Math 20\
                                         CIS 60A\
                    X\
   X\
    GR DES 54\
            X\
   X\
6\
          ADDENDUM B\
CSIS Department\'92s Microsoft DreamSpark Software Center STUDENT INFORMATION SHEET\
              We currently have the following software programs available for our enrolled students: \uc0\u61692  Visual Studio .NET 2010, 2012\
\uc0\u61692  Access 2010\
\uc0\u61692  Project Professional 2007 & 2010\
\uc0\u61692  Visio Professional 2007\
\uc0\u61692  Expression Studio 3\
\uc0\u61692  SQL Server 2005 Developer Edition \uc0\u61692  SQL Server 2008 Developer Edition \uc0\u61692  Windows Server 2003 Enterprise Ed. \uc0\u61692  Windows 7 Professional\
The basic procedures are as follows:\
\uc0\u61607  Microsoft provides certain software programs to our students free of charge just as long as each student registers and accepts the terms of the license agreement.\
\uc0\u61607  Instructors register currently enrolled students to our Microsoft DreamSpark Website.\
\uc0\u61607  Students will receive a welcome email with username and password to the Website.\
\uc0\u61607  Students visit the site, select the software, accept the license terms and obtain serial numbers.\
\uc0\u61607  In order to obtain the software students must do one of the following:\
1. Bring blank DVD to the computer lab in B231. They will find a copy of the software on the Express terminals in the lab so they can burn their own CD(s). The lab staff in B231 are available to assist students with this task as long as students have first completed steps 1-10 below.\
2. Download ISO file(s) directly to your home computer. Please see the additional instruction sheet on how to use the download option. (Visual Studio .NET 2008 is only available for DVD download.)\
Step-by-Step Instructions for Students:\
1. Verify that your instructor has your correct email address this would be your SMC email address.\
2. Once your professor has created an account for you to download free Microsoft products, you will receive an email\
from Microsoft DreamSpark with the Subject line: \'93An account has been created for you\'94.\
3. Click the registration link in the email. If it does not work, you may need to copy the link into your browser. You will be sent to a page where you create a password. Your user name is the email address that was used by your professor to create the account.\
4. Select the product you need and select Add To Cart.\
5. Click Continue Shopping or Checkout.\
6. Once you select Checkout, a Subscription Agreement will appear that you must read and accept by clicking I\
ACCEPT.\
7. Select Proceed with Order. This will complete the order and display an\
Order Receipt with Order Summary and Order Information and the Start Download link. This Order Receipt information will also be sent to you in an email. IMPORTANT: To install software, you will need to burn it to a DVD. You cannot install the program from your desktop.Before you download software, please review the Order Receipt. In the Product Description of the receipt, you will see Product Key Information. This is a number you will need when you install and register the software.\
8. For instructions of how to burn software to a DVD, select the HELP link in\
the upper right corner of the DreamSpark website. Select this link and then\
under the Downloading DreamSpark Software section, select I have\
downloaded an .img or .iso file. What do I do now? At the bottom of this\
page, select the link, Working with Image Files, for a .pdf manual with detailed instructions of how to burn software to a DVD. If you have difficulty burning the software to a DVD on your own computer, you can bring a blank DVD to the computer lab in B231, and the staff will assist you with burning the software onto your DVD. For additional information, click the HELP link in the upper right corner of any page of the DreamSpark website.\
  IMPORTANT: If\
 you don\'92t receive the welcome message please check your Junk/Spam folder with the above subject line.\
 Important: SMC and the CSIS department are not responsible for any installation or technical problems resulting on your own computer. If you do not have the necessary system requirements or you are uncertain about installing software on your own computer you should use the computers in the B231 computer lab to complete your homework assignments.\
7\
}